---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/misc/mechanics/"}
---

Level up
Levels 2-10
One fixer point
One Perk
One Ability
Ten Improvement Points

SKILLS 
10 points to buy a tier one skill
20 points to buy a tier 2 skill
30 IP to improve an Attribute's BASE stat

After levelling a skill to level 10
20 points to upgrade a skill from 10-15 for tier 1
40 points for tier 2

After levelling a skill to level 15
40  points for tier one
80 points for tier 2

For attributes after 10
60 points to level base stat after 10

For people with talent skills
Halve the cost when buying a skill level

EGO
Tier 2 skill
Used to attack with EGO weapons and special moves
Every 2 E.G.O points you get one page, capped at 5 pages.
First page needs 2 points

AUGMENTS
Can buy a total of your base stat + 1
(Ask first)

Costs:
1000 to buy a stat boost of tier 1
10,000 to buy a stat boost of tier 2
100,000 tier 3
1,000,000 tier 4
and so on...

Skill Augments:
Skill chips


Damage Types:
Physical
Bleed: Ignores armor, has to deal damage with physical first
Example: A rat stabs you for 6 physical damage, and 5 bleed damage. Take 5

Burn: Armor ablates. At the end of the round, take damage equal to all burn tokens, then half the stack. You can use your action to put it out, removing all burn tokens. After receiving burn damage, half the damage is given as tokens

Sinking(x): The next time the character is hit, they take typeless sanity damage equal to sinking stacks, then remove all stacks of sinking. Sanity for the sake of this game, for every bit of sanity damage you lose 1 to attack rolls
For example at -2 sanity you take a -2 to attack rolls. Healed after fight

Smoke(x): Stacks up to 10. You take x more damage from physical attacks. All dice gain +1 power at 9 or more smoke. Lose 1 smoke at the end of the turn. (There are perks to negate the extra damage taken from smoke)

Toxin: Similar to bleed

Tremor(X): Affects some abilities and perks. Lose one tremor after turn end.
If character has tremor and is hit by tremor burst, they must make a stagger save equal to how many tremor stacks they had + half the stacks using Body or Endurance. If they fail, they are staggered

Example: Enemy has 16 tremor, and is hit by tremor burst. They must make a DV 16+8 Body or Endurance save


Charge: Used and generated by specific abilities and equipment. The character’s equipment and perks determine the storage limit. All charge is lost upon entering or exiting combat, without perks that say otherwise.

Status Effects:

Adrenaline: Character can’t be sent into Bleedout, gets +2 to all dice, take half damage from all physical attacks, gain 1 more ROF

Accuracy (x): x to all attack rolls

Anti-Recovery(x): Cannot recover Hp for (x) turns. 

Bind(x): Mov is lowered by x

Blinded: Target cannot use any ability or or other maneuver which relies on sight, but is immune to effects which rely on the target seeing them.

Blurred: If the character with Blurred has allies without Blurred, then they cannot be targeted by any enemy attacks. Mass Attacks and Counters still function normally against them.

Chilled(x): 1 Chill is lost at the start of each turn. At the start of the turn, if the character has 4 or more Chill, gain 2 Bind and Feeble. If the character has 6 or more Chill, gain 2 Immobilize, and remove all Chill from self at the start of the next Scene. Stacks of Burn negate stacks of Chill

Deafened: Target cannot use any ability or or other maneuver which relies on sound, but is immune to effects which rely on the target hearing them.

Disarm(x): Reduce x damage reduction

Endurance(x): Add x to damage reduction

Energy Seal(x): Target has (x) fewer ROF for a weaspon until the end of the next turn. (minimum of 1 ROF)

Erosion(x): Take (x) damage at the end of each combat turn, then lose one point of erosion. When taking a hit, take bonus damage equal to the amount of Erosion.

Feeble(x): Reduce all attack rolls by (x), to a minimum of 1

Fragile(x): Target takes (x) more hp damage from attacks, before resistances/weaknesses.

Haste(x): Mov is enhanced by x

Immobilize(x): One square counts as 2 Mov, sprinting is unavailable for x turns

Obscured Vision(x): The character cannot see beyond (x) tiles around them. Not being able to see something means that it is not targetable with melee maneuvers and ranged maneuvers gain a -3 power penalty to all offensive dice.

Paralysis(x): The first (x) dice target rolls in the next turn have -3 to result, the change to the roll from paralysis is counted for any effects which specify a “natural roll”. Movement speed is halved. 

Powernull: Target is unaffected by power-related effects until the end of their turn.
Powernull can also apply to individual abilities, maneuvers, or dice. When powernulled, a die only rolls the base value and dice on the ability plus the dice from the user’s weapon’s dice.
	Whenever something mentions being “Nullified” then this effect is used.

Poise: Next (x) dice which do max damage do an additional 6 damage.

Protection(x): Target takes (x) less physical damage from attacks, before resistances or weaknesses.

Resilience(x): The character can prevent (x) instances of status effects being inflicted on them. 1 stack is consumed per stack of status inflicted and the character with resilience can decide whether or not to spend a stack when inflicted with a status effect.

Rupture(x): The next time the character is hit, they take typeless hp damage equal to rupture stacks, then remove all stacks of rupture.

Sanity Fragile(x): Target takes (x) more sanity damage from attacks, before resistances/weaknesses.

Sanity Protection(x): Target takes (x) less sanity damage from attacks, before resistances/weaknesses.

Shield(x): Shields count as HP but are depleted first and can go over your maximum HP. Shields are normally lost at the end of each turn.

Staggered: Players lose their action and turn all resistances to Fatal (double damage from ALL ATTACKS) for the current and next turn. Enemies lose that and are also unable to use any maneuvers or movement the current and next turn. Simply, you skip your turn, can't evade, and take double damage.

Strength(x): Add +(x) to all damage rolls
